1.Although the origin of this beloved cookie is up for debate, there's no doubt it's a favorite during the holidays. Snickerdoodles are a type of drop cookie (any cookie that is formed by dropping spoonfuls of dough directly onto a baking sheet) that is coated in cinnamon and sugar. They can be crisp or soft, with a slightly cracked surface.

2.Among the most popular of all cookie types, the chocolate chip cookie's invention was a happy accident. In 1930, Ruth Graves Wakefield, who ran the Toll House Inn in Whitman, Massachusetts, ran out of baker's chocolate and substituted for it with pieces of Nestle's semi-sweet chocolate. The rest is history. Chocolate chip cookies are drop cookies that can be soft and doughy or crisp and crunchy, depending on how long you cook them or what ingredients you use.

3.A seriously underrated cookie, oatmeal raisin is another type of drop cookie. Its dough is oatmeal-based and contains raisins and brown sugar. They're warm and comforting — a reminder of simpler times and grandma's house.

4.Also known as ginger nuts or ginger biscuits, these spicy treats are popular all around the world. Powdered ginger, cinnamon, molasses, and nutmeg make this popular holiday cookie the perfect blend of sweet and spicy.

5. Shortbread cookies have a very high ratio of butter or shortening to flour, hence the name "short." They differ from butter cookies in that they have lower quantities of flour and sugar, giving them a more crumbly and tender texture. These classic cookies originated in Scotland and date back to medieval times.

6.A favorite for all the peanut butter lovers, these cookies are made with hand-rolled dough that is often flattened with a fork to achieve that familiar waffle pattern. This technique was first introduced in the 1933 edition of "Pillsbury's Balanced Recipes," and also helps to distinguish this cookie for those with peanut allergies.

7.These sandwich-style cookies are made with two soft, pillowy cookies and a marshmallow filling. Considered a Pennsylvania Amish tradition, legend has it that they're named after the exclamation children would make when they found them in their lunches. Today, they are very popular in Maine, where whoopie pies were first sold. Traditionally, chocolate cookies were used to make whoopie pies, but they've since expanded to everything from red velvet to pumpkin.

8.The sugar cookie is like the vanilla ice cream of cookies — everyone likes it, but few claim it as their favorite. Basic ingredients like sugar, flour, butter, eggs, and vanilla make up this popular cookie type. It was first created in mid-18th-century Pennsylvania by the Moravians. They can be easily cut into shapes and customized, leading to their wild popularity, especially during the holidays.

9.An offshoot of the popular holiday gingerbread cookies, molasses cookies are made with just as much ginger. Sometimes molasses is the sole sweetener in these cookies, and other times it's made with a mixture of sugar and molasses. They can come in either a soft, cake form or a chewier crinkle form (perfect for gifting).

10.Kiss cookies are made by pressing a chocolate kiss into soft, fresh-out-of-the-oven cookies. They are fairly customizable — choose whatever base you'd like for the cookie. Their eye-catching presentation makes them perfect for serving to company.

11.The origin of the word biscotti literally means "twice-cooked/baked" as biscotti is baked twice, resulting in its hard texture and long shelf life. It traces all the way back to ancient Rome, where it was a convenient snack for travelers. Today, biscotti can be found in coffee shops everywhere, in a variety of flavors.

12.Like shortbread cookies, butter cookies have a high proportion of butter to flour. The difference between the two is that butter cookies have increased amounts of flour and sugar, helping them to hold their shape better than shortbread. Their sturdy texture allows them to be shipped as gifts, and they're perfect for rolling and cutting into a variety of festive shapes.

13.These German cookies are traditionally served around Christmas time. They're made by squirting the dough through a cookie press to make intricate designs. Spritz cookies can come in a variety of colors and flavors, including almond, peanut butter, orange, chocolate, and more. Dip them in chocolate and decorate with sprinkles for a festive treat.

14.These melt-in-your-mouth cookies go by many names, including Mexican wedding cakes, butterballs, and Russian tea cakes. They're balls of buttery shortbread filled with pecans and rolled with powdered sugar. A wintery sweet no one can resist!

15.A drop cookie is any cookie that's made by dropping spoonfuls of dough directly onto a baking sheet. This means lots of cookies can be drop cookies such as chocolate chip, oatmeal raisin, and more. They have a soft, cake-like texture and are extremely versatile.

16.These round, shortbread cookies are made by pressing your thumb into the dough to make a hole that can then be filled with a variety of jams. They're synonymous with the holidays and completely customizable. Be careful not to press your thumb too hard into the dough, as this may cause the dough to crack.

17.For cookies that stand out in a crowd, these hypnotizing pinwheels are the perfect choice. Although they may appear challenging to make, all that's required is rolling two dough rectangles of different colors together in a pinwheel formation, before slicing them into rounds and baking. Get creative with food coloring or add ingredients like dates!

18.These thin, flat, and dry cookies have several variations. Whether you're baking classic vanilla wafers for banana pudding or another variation, wafers are for those who prefer a lighter cookie fix.

19.While a macaron is a sandwiched, meringue-based cookie invented in France, a macaroon is coconut-based. It has a dense, lumpy texture and comes in various forms. It may be flavored with fruit or dipped in chocolate — or simply enjoyed plain. The best part about macaroons is that, unlike their French counterparts, they require very little time to make.

20.For many folks in the U.S., these cookies are synonymous with Chinese takeout. But they can easily be made at home using flour, sugar, vanilla, and sesame oil. Their origin is actually from a Japanese cookie known as "tsujiura senbei." When they were first introduced in the U.S., they were sweetened with vanilla to appeal to American tastes. Break into them and see what fortune awaits!

21.Chocolate enthusiasts love these fudgy crinkle cookies that are rolled in powdered sugar. They have a chewy texture that melts in your mouth. Patience is a virtue when it comes to crinkle cookies, as they require refrigerating the dough overnight. But, it's so worth it once you pull those powdered cookies out of the oven and see the fudge center peeking through the cracks.

22.Icebox cookies are cookies that are made by forming the dough into a log and chilling it in the refrigerator, hence the name. Once you're ready to bake, simply slice the dough into rounds and place onto a baking sheet. Icebox cookies can be customized however you like. Try adding fruit, nuts, and even oatmeal to the dough.

23.Perhaps no cookie has more holiday street cred than the gingerbread cookie. Use them to make gingerbread men or gingerbread houses (and have a gingerbread house decorating contest!). Basic ingredients include butter, flour, cinnamon, ginger, cloves, nutmeg, sugar, and molasses.

24.Less cookie than mini pie, tassies are a Southern delicacy. They are made by molding dough into small muffin cups, which are then filled with an egg filling. These adorable mini pies will stand out on any holiday dessert spread.

25.Similar to a gingerbread cookie, Lebkuchen is a traditional German cookie that is served around Christmas time. Sometimes they can come in cookie form, and other times they more resemble dessert bars. They have a hard, sugary glaze and spicy ginger taste. They'll keep well past Christmas Day, too.

26.Not to be confused with macaroons, macarons are round, meringue-based cookies with a creamy ganache filling in between. Today, it's the most popular cookie in France, coming in a rainbow of colors and flavors. The cookie crust is delicate and similar in texture to an eggshell. Bite in to reveal the chewy meringue texture inside. It may require some practice to get them just right, but they'll keep for several days and will be the star of any dessert table.

27.The base of a black and white cookie is soft and thick shortbread, which is iced with half vanilla fondant and half chocolate fondant. Black and white cookies are considered a New York City delicacy, made famous by the Seinfeld episode, "The Dinner Party." Whether or not they're actually a metaphor for harmony and unity (as Jerry suggests), they're quite delicious.

28.White chocolate chips and macadamia nuts are the perfect pair. Today, the popular cookie has expanded to include variations with dried fruit and other additions. No matter how you take them, these cookies are one of life's simple pleasures.

29.Cut-out cookies are crisp, frosting-ready, and fun to eat. These treats take on shapes like stars, flowers, trees, and holiday motifs to make your dessert table one-of-a-kind. Chilled dough prevents spreading, while a buttery base ensures that everyone gets the best bite possible.

30.Looking for a crumbly, nutty dessert that's delicate enough to indulge in all day? Crescent cookies, also called Viennese crescents, feature a sugary coating and crushed nuts or nut flour for a uniquely satisfying flavor.